README.md, before:

# Optimal (WIP)

## About

URL: https://iknaxd5pj9.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/api/.

URL: http://optimal.apphosting.services.

## How to Use

### Chalice

1. `. venv/Scripts/activate`.
2. `chalice deploy`.

Also: `chalice logs`.

### Layers

1. Managed layer: `optimal-dev-managed-layer: arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:<AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER>:layer:optimal-dev-managed-layer:15`.
2. Sympy layer: `optimal-sympy-layer: arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:<AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER>:layer:optimal-sympy-layer:1`.


1. `pip3 install --target=C:\Users\Darren\PycharmProjects\Miniprojects\optimal\sympylayer\venv -r layer2-requirements.txt`. 
2. `pip3 install --target=C:\Users\Darren\PycharmProjects\Miniprojects\optimal\scipylayer\venv -r layer3-requirements.txt`.


Add to `.chalice/config.json`:
```json
{
  "layers": [
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:pulp_layer:1",
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:pyomo_layer:1",
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:sympy_layer:1"
  ]
}
```

Remember to structure the inside of your zip files correctly:
* pyomo_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages
* sympy_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages
* pulp_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages

Current load times:
```shell
{'pyomo_version': '6.8.2', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED PYOMO', 'loading_time': 4.124641418457031e-05}
Test took 0.2777373790740967 seconds
{'pulp_version': '2.9.0', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED PULP', 'loading_time': 0.46628499031066895}
Test took 0.7224259376525879 seconds
{'sympy_version': '1.13.3', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED SYMPY', 'loading_time': 10.816535711288452}
Test took 11.0744309425354 seconds
{'scipy_version': '1.14.1', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED SCIPY', 'loading_time': 3.814697265625e-05}
Test took 0.46985483169555664 seconds
```

## POSTMAN

After importing the file `optimal.postman_collection.json`, be sure to swap every case of `___REPLACE_WITH_API_KEY___` with the API Gateway key (`API_KEY` in `.env`).

Commit message:

Added a project description to the README.

README.md, after:

# Optimal (WIP)

## About

This project uses Chalice (AWS Lambda and API Gateway deployment tool) to serve several different mathematical optimization tools (SymPy, SciPy, Pyomo, PuLP, DWave, etc).

There is also an LLM component in the works that is meant to translate word problems into symbolic notation for processing.

## Access

URL: https://iknaxd5pj9.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/api/.

URL: https://optimal.apphosting.services.

Note that it requires an API token.

## How to Use

### Chalice

1. `. venv/Scripts/activate`.
2. `chalice deploy`.

Also: `chalice logs`.

### Layers

1. Managed layer: `optimal-dev-managed-layer: arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:<AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER>:layer:optimal-dev-managed-layer:15`.
2. Sympy layer: `optimal-sympy-layer: arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:<AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER>:layer:optimal-sympy-layer:1`.


1. `pip3 install --target=C:\Users\Darren\PycharmProjects\Miniprojects\optimal\sympylayer\venv -r layer2-requirements.txt`. 
2. `pip3 install --target=C:\Users\Darren\PycharmProjects\Miniprojects\optimal\scipylayer\venv -r layer3-requirements.txt`.


Add to `.chalice/config.json`:
```json
{
  "layers": [
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:pulp_layer:1",
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:pyomo_layer:1",
    "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:160751179089:layer:sympy_layer:1"
  ]
}
```

Remember to structure the inside of your zip files correctly:
* pyomo_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages
* sympy_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages
* pulp_layer.zip:python\lib\python3.12\site-packages

Current load times:
```shell
{'pyomo_version': '6.8.2', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED PYOMO', 'loading_time': 4.124641418457031e-05}
Test took 0.2777373790740967 seconds
{'pulp_version': '2.9.0', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED PULP', 'loading_time': 0.46628499031066895}
Test took 0.7224259376525879 seconds
{'sympy_version': '1.13.3', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED SYMPY', 'loading_time': 10.816535711288452}
Test took 11.0744309425354 seconds
{'scipy_version': '1.14.1', 'success': 'SUCCESSFULLY LOADED SCIPY', 'loading_time': 3.814697265625e-05}
Test took 0.46985483169555664 seconds
```

## POSTMAN

After importing the file `optimal.postman_collection.json`, be sure to swap every case of `___REPLACE_WITH_API_KEY___` with the API Gateway key (`API_KEY` in `.env`).
